# GRAD521_DMP_Assignment

This Data Managment Plan (DMP) is part of an assignment for GRAD 521, and will serve as an example for how to write DMPs in the future.

Context of the project:

Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) and blazars, two of the most energetic phenomena in our universe, are thought to be powered by central engines spewing out jets of plasma at close to the speed of light. These jets contain so much energy that in a single event they can briefly outshine their host galaxy. Missions such as NASA’s Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope have produced a wealth of observational data over the last three decades, however many details surrounding these phenomena, including the jet structure and the role radiation-matter interactions play in jet evolution, remain unknown. How does the energy contained in jets translate to the radiation (i.e., light) we observe? How can we improve the accuracy of the physics represented in computational models? Can simulation results, in the form of light curves and spectra, be reliably compared to existing observational data? These are the principle questions I will be investigating as part of the Computational Astrophysics group here at OSU, where as part of my thesis work I will develop a 3Dl special relativity hydrodynamic (SRHD) code that incorporates radiation and magnetic effects to more accurately capture jet dynamics. 

As a computational project, data will be key to the work. Data regarding known astrophysical jet sources, which includes data such as mass, angular momentum, and metallicity, from different central engines will be used as the simulated progenitor (our initial setup). Such data will be captured from online astronomical catalogues. As a simulated output, light curves (intensity, or total power output over time) and spectra (counts from a source as a function of energy) are the goal as they can be directly compared to observational data. To achieve these numerical results, a 3D SRHD code will be developed using a combination of C++ and Python will be developed, as no public code is currently available. Due to the compute intensive nature of these simulations, the code will be developed in such a way that leverages high-performance computing architectures. It is expected that this project will ultimately produce on the order of hundreds of GB of data. 
